## Business Metrics for Data-Driven Companies

**Objectives**: We will review best practices for how to use data analytics to make any company more competitive and more profitable. 

- Recognize the most critical business metrics and distinguish them from mere data.
- Analyze the different roles Business Analysts, Business Data Analysts, and Data Scientists play in various types of companies.
- Describe the skills required to be hired for, and succeed at, these high-demand jobs.
- Define the different data-related roles needed in a company in order to implement and make use of data analysis.
- Finally, We will be able to score any company on how effectively it embraces Big Data Culture.


### What are business metrics?

What is the highest and best use of a business analyst or a business data analyst?
The answer is:

- To find out the right question to ask. Then, find the best answer you possibly can in the time, and with the resources available. 
- Ensuring that your answer has practical impact by translating it into a specific call to action. A specific recommended action, communicated to the relevant decision makers. Using visual metaphors and non technical language.

**What is always the right question?**
What change, in our business processes can and should we make right now? To `increase revenues`, `maximize profitability` or `reduce our risk`.

**What do we mean by, right now?**
There are several answers. 

- The ideal answer is something like, our company has engineered real time, computerized systems. That optimize for certain dynamic metrics. By adjusting our response to customer and market input. With a delay for processing or latency, of no more than a fraction of a second. 
- The next best answer is what we call Just in Time. A computerized response is not possible. So we respond to individual customers with a human being. Where that human being has access to the full historical record, of that customers interactions with the company. Whether through buying things, customer support calls, actions on our website, etc. 
- The third best answer, which is still good, is that the change that we are recommending, can't happen overnight. But it can happen as soon as it has been empirically tested and shown to work. We do testing by making one small change at a time to our website. Creating two different versions, A and B, and comparing which performs better. This is called AB testing. In any case, an AB test can begin within 30 days of a recommendation. And the recommended change can be made as soon as enough data is gathered. To determine that one choice is clearly better than the other. 

So metrics are special numbers that help us to ask and answer the right business question. What decision should we make? What process should we change right now? Metrics are numbers that we can impact when we change our business processes.  For example, for a local bricks and mortar retail clothing store rooted in the state of North Carolina. Where we have a 4.75% sales tax, the sales tax is not a metric. There's nothing that we can do to change it. It's basically a fact of nature for us like the weather. On the other hand the percentage of people who viewed our ad on a particular website. Then used it as a link to click through to our homepage. Can change every time the ad contents and appearance change. Or when the time of day changes, where we run the ad, on what websites it appears and etc.

### Distinguishing Revenue, Profitability and Risk Metrics

All business metrics can be classified into three broad categories. 

1. Revenue metrics
2. Profitability metrics
3. Risk metrics

One way to help distinguish for a particular metric, which of these three categories it falls into, is to think about what people in the company depend on this information and will ask for it. 
Revenue metrics relate to `sales` and `marketing`. Profitability metrics to `efficiency` and
`logistics`, `production`, and `operations`. And risk metrics to `risk management`, and are widely used by a company's creditors,
and outside investors. 

#### Revenue metrics

Revenue metrics are outward facing. They tell us something about how well or badly the company is marketing and selling its products. The company sales force, typically led by a vice resident of sales, will want to know how many units of each product were sold over a given time interval and how this compares to the same time interval last year and the year before. They will want to look at sales by region, by product and by new versus repeat customers. And they will want to know about the sales funnel, the potential future customers who have been identified, and where they are in the step by step process of moving towards making a purchase. Meanwhile, the marketing team, typically led by a VP of marketing, will want to know how effective any marketing campaigns may be. How many people have seen a particular advertisement or email marketing piece or mail offer? What percentage have responded, etc? Everything that relates directly or indirectly to selling is a revenue metric. 

#### Profitability metrics

Profitability metrics have to do with the efficiency of the processes by which the company creates and delivers its products and services to customers. These are operational metrics, sought after by those people in the company responsible for production. Typically led in a large company
by the chief operating officer. Anything that relates to how much cash is tied up in the form of unsold inventory, how much production is unsaleable
due to spoilage or wastage. Or at the other extreme, how often the company is unable to meet urgent customer requests and loses sales because of insufficient production or inventory. What portion of products off a production
line are rejected as defective, how much is spent on variable costs, raw materials and labor, per unit product and etc. These are all efficiency metrics. Note that even a company with large and rapidly increasing revenues will fail to be profitable if it cannot deliver its offerings efficiently. Large established companies with relatively little room to increase revenues can often achieve significant increases in profitability by focusing on improving operational efficiencies. 

#### Risk metrics

Risk metrics have to do with tracking and where possible reducing the many potential dangers a company faces. For example, if a company is spending a large portion of its net cash flow every month on interest on its debts, then even a small drop in revenues caused by some external shock, like a recession, could cause the company to become insolvent and collapse. Secured creditors have the right to seize a company's assets if they're not paid on time and that would close down the business. Net cash out is always the most important metric to track. How many months can the company survive at the present burn rate? Another example of risk metric is churn, a company with a subscription based revenue model that has a very high churn rate, the rate at which new subscribers drop off within a year, runs the risk that over time, there are fewer targets who have never been customers and it becomes impossible to maintain revenue growth or even hold steady. The greater the reliance on long term recurring revenue customers, the less dependent a company is on constantly successfully converting new prospects into clients and that's a lot less risky. Other examples of risk metrics
are specific to the financial industry. Banks that issue credit cards are in the business of tracking how much exposure they have to potential customer defaults at any time and what percentage of their customers are expected to default in the next six months or are in default now. Money managers use volatility of returns and something called the maximum historical drawn down from high water mark, which we'll explain later, as a proxy for their portfolio's risk exposure. I've noticed in general that most risk metrics are related in one way or another to leverage. Anyone whose survival depends on their ability to pay back a large amount of borrowed money faces a magnified risk from any misfortune. 

> Revenue metrics are for optimistic extroverts, profitability metrics for fastidious perfectionists, and risk metrics for informed skeptics. A great company will harness all three types of temperaments and track all three types of metrics.

### Distinguishing Traditional and Dynamic Metrics

`Traditional business metrics` include standard financial and managerial accounting categories, such as quarterly statements of net cash flow, profits and losses, and changes to balance sheet items such as shareholder's equity. Traditional business metrics have their origins primarily in paper and pencil after the fact reporting. Business decisions, that might be made based on these metrics, will happen usually after long deliberation, sometimes on a scale of months to years. 
`Dynamic Business Metrics` are defined and can be communicated in a manner that conveys urgency. Metrics that address the right question, what change in our business processes can we make right now to increase revenues, maximize profitability, or reduce risk? 
Two attributes make a business metric dynamic.

- First, will the metric change significantly over intervals of a month or less? If not, it's not very dynamic. For example, the monthly rent a stand alone retail store in a mall pays on its three-year real estate lease is of course a business metric related to its efficiency and profitability, but it is not a dynamic business metric. There's no point in tracking it because it won't change anytime soon. On the other hand, if a national retail chain with 1,000 mall-based stores is individually negotiating and signing an average of about seven new three-year leases each week, it can and should track average monthly rent per square foot on new real estate leases as an important dynamic metric, against which to set goals and track progress.
- Second, are their specific actions the company can take that can visibly or significantly impact the metric in the short term? If not, then the metric doesn't lend itself to dynamic tracking. Whether the metric is dynamic, may also depend on the business context. For example, if the 1,000 store retail chain we just mentioned is neither adding nor closing stores and is simply renewing leases on current space, where the old leases had pre-negotiated  terms to be extended, It will be difficult to make much impact on the average monthly rent per square foot. On the other hand, if that retail chain publicly announces that it is going to close 25% of its US retail stores, as the GAP chain did in June of 2015, it may be able to go back to landlords with the proposition, either we leave at the end of the current lease and you'll need to find a new tenant, if you can, who may not pay as much per square foot as we do. Or let's renegotiate our lease terms now. In this case, the average monthly rent per square foot for newly renegotiated leases would be a dynamic metric for the GAP. It's a place they could save money. This is why announcing all your bad newsat once is often a good business strategy. How much impact a business change can have on the metric, is another important thing that we need to observe. If the metric is noisy, then lots of things are affecting it. If its twitchy, that means it's very specifically offended by what we're doing. Traditional metrics, like quarterly revenues, are impacted by dozen of different factors, many of which are completely outside the control of our business. The great new advertising campaign that we launched may not even show up in quarterly revenue metrics if, in fact, most of our customers are government agencies on long-term contracts with a very long sales cycle. Total revenues is always an aggregate number, and as they say on the Kissmetrics website, aggregate data is kind of worthless. Dynamic metrics are twitchy. Small changes in process, in our process, can lead to big impact. For example the percentage of people who will fill an online shopping cart and take their shopping cart all the way to purchase is extremely sensitive to average page load times. Studies have shown that pages that load in three or more seconds are much less likely to lead to sales than pages that load in less than three seconds. 40% of web users will abandon completely, a web page that does not load in three seconds. This is why there's an entire industry devoted to what's called edge caching. Content delivery networks, like Akamai, that retail stores pay to store copies of their websites locally, physically near their customers around the world, saving a precious second or two in load times.


### Roles and Companies as They Relate to Big Data

There is a simplified framework that classifies four main types of roles:

1. Business analyst
2. Business data analyst
3. Data scientist
4. Senior software engineer or technical project manager. 

Usually companies classified  into five types based on their fundamental relationship to big data:

1. Strategic consulting firms with a general business focus
2. Traditional bricks-and-mortar companies in all industries
3. Strategic consulting firms with an information technology or systems integration focus,
4. Companies selling hardware and software, or software as a service for gathering, storing, analyzing, and using big data
5. Digital businesses, where the core of the company's value creation involves real-time analysis of data. 


In many respects a business data analyst's work is similar to that of a business analyst. All of the skills required of a business analyst, are also required of
a business data analyst. The business data analyst’s role, differs from the business analyst’s role in two main ways. 

Two additional requirements, or skills, that make the business data analyst’s job more senior, and generally higher pay. 

- **First** is a conceptual or analytical skill. The business data analyst is expected to be able to think flexibly, about how the data a company is currently collecting could be recombined, and analyzed in new ways to understand the business better. Where business analyst, is generally given a specific problem to analyze. Based on information that has been assembled by someone else. A business data analyst may need to be able to pull together information from data sources scattered throughout the company, and should be able to figure out where to go in the organization, to find the relevant data. In other words, a business data analyst should be able to figure out the right questions to ask, in order to identify opportunities for business process changes, that may be suggested by the data. 
- **Second** is a related technical skill. While a business analyst is generally given a ready made data set, or a problem definition. A business data analyst, is expected to be able to run SQL, or structured query language, queries to pull useful data out of much larger databases. Or even from distributed collections of unstructured data, scattered in multiple locations within the organization. And to combine that polled data into new data sets that did not previously exist, to support the data analyst's research agenda. Learning SQL is not difficult. You can learn enough SQL in a few weeks to meet the expectations for most business data analyst positions. However, this technical knowledge does form a great divide. People who do not have SQL skills, are dependent on others. Typically the IT department, or database administrators within the organization, to create usable data sets for them. While people with SQL skills can by themselves, access and reorganize almost any raw data in the organization. This level of autonomy and self sufficiency greatly increases the productivity of a business data analyst, and allows them much greater room for creativity, because they can explore hunches or pursue leads. That may not turn into anything without burdening other employees, who would otherwise need to gather and scrub or recombine the necessary data for them.

Look into all US companies, They fall into five groups that ranked from least to most reliant upon proprietary software intellectual property for their business advantage. 
In other words, they are ranked from most likely to least likely to be hiring for entry level business analyst positions, as opposed to be hiring for more technical software development roles. These rankings are explained in detail on the illustration that accompanies these lectures. 
- The first group of the five are the traditional strategic business consulting firms. Their business model is that they are paid for advice. They generally focus on ways to improve business processes, increase revenues, maximize profitability, and reduce risk. 
- The second group is by far the largest. Traditional businesses in all market sectors. These are often referred to as bricks-and-mortar companies. In contrast to digital companies that compete in the same markets but with completely different business models, and often with much lower cost structures. All that brick and mortar costs a lot of money. Many sectors of the traditional economy, such as retail, big box stores, banking and payment processing, financial advisors, taxis, hotels, are facing dangerous competition from digital companies. We'll identify signs that companies are fighting back effectively, and indications that they are lagging behind. 
- The third group are a small number of strategic business consulting firms that also recommend business process changes, but they specialize in building or installing custom software systems to implement their recommendations. These firms have outsize influence on the market for data analytics, because fortune 500 companies tend to follow their advice. 
- The fourth group are hardware and software companies. These are the critical companies that together provide the products, and services to gather, store, manage, search, process, analyze, visualize and report the world's data. 
- The fifth group are the digital companies. They compete primarily against established players in traditional markets. Like providing taxi service, rooms to rent for the night, business and consumer loans, retail shopping, movies, opportunities for communication and social connection. But without the fixed costs of their bricks-and-mortar competitors. Digital companies also create market sectors with no real equivalent before the internet, like Google and search or Ebay and online auctions. All digital companies rely upon massive data processing, generally enhanced by machine learning systems to make real-time decisions. At the heart of their value proposition is business analytics.


## Web Marketing - Metrics
Web marketing metrics are revenue metrics, analytics related to them lead directly to increasing sales. And they're dynamic, even small changes you make, for example, in your website's homepage text or in the AdWords that you purchase for sponsored links on search results, can lead to rapid and significant changes in these metrics. 
For our purposes, marketing is defined as the deliberate, measurable process of first creating and then continually increasing positive awareness and interest for a specific brand, product or service offering within a target demographic. 
By a target demographic, we mean a group of people with common characteristics, such as all being between 18 and 35 years of age, being from the same country or geographic region, etc. 
Because marketing requires effective use of limited resources, marketers seek to focus their efforts on groups whose members are much more likely than the average person to be willing to learn about the product or service offering, to buy it, and ultimately, to become high value, recurring revenue customers. 

One of the most focused ways to reach who have an interest in your offering is by purchasing Adwords. Adwords are offered by Google on an auction basis and the following description applies specifically to Google. But there are a number of other similar alternative venues and pricing schemes. 
The way the Adwords auction market works is as follows. First, when a user enters search terms into Google, Google identifies ad words, terms that advertisers have placed bids on that match the searchers topic. This step is not trivial from a computing point of view. 
For example, Google may match a user search on emergency pet care to the key words veterinary hospital and animal hospital. Advertisers bid on their keywords by setting a maximum cost per click-through, or Max CPC for each keyword they are interested in. CPC bidding is also sometimes called pay per click, or PPC. Typically, winning adword bids are sold for less than the maximum CPC. The actual CPC is typically 1 to $2. 
Note that Google gets paid only when someone clicks through a sponsored link to the advertiser's landing page. Google ranks the links that it shows. Higher ranked links get more attention and more clicks. Google could maximize its revenues by ranking highest, links that maximize actual CPC multiplied by the expected click-through rate. In fact, Google does almost exactly this calculation. But instead of multiplying the CPC by the expected click-through rate alone, they multiply CPC by a metric called a Quality Score that includes the expected click-through rate and two other factors. The other weighting factors are ad relevance and landing page experience. In Google's words what this means is the quality of your ad text and landing page in the context of what a user is searching for. This may sound mysterious, but the purpose of the two additional waiting factors is to prevent exploitative misdirection that would hurt the Google brand. 
For example, imagine if a liquor store decided to buy adwords related to emergency pet care, the example we used before, on the theory that people with a sick pet could probably use a drink. Google automatically parses the text of the sponsored link, and of the web page the sponsored link points to, the so-called landing page. If either text does not contained primarily language directly related to the medical care of animals, the liquor store would get a very low quality score for that bid. Google aims to offer sponsored links to landing pages that are as similar as possible in subject matter, quality, and click-through rates to the webpages that Google ranks highest in its unsponsored or organic search results. To avoid low quality scores the rule of thumb is be yourself. Keep your landing page text directly relevant to your adwords and vice versa. 
If we tried to sell ads on our homepage or direct people to links on other topics, that would also negatively impact our quality score. Once we develop some experience with bidding on adwords, we will have data on the typical actual cost per click through, actual CPC we are paying. We can track just the users who come to our website through a sponsored link and determine what percentage of them ultimately buy our product at least once. This percentage is our conversion rate for sponsored links. The actual CPC divided by the conversion rate is our acquisition cost for new customers through the sponsored link channel. Some customers will buy from us only once. Others become recurring revenue customers. Once we have enough conversions to develop an idea of what the average pattern of purchases over time is, from each conversion, we can estimate a lifetime value, or LTV, of each customer. This represents the present value of all future revenues from that customer. Lifetime value is calculated in a number of different ways.If we assume that the lifetime value for a pizza business for each customer is $500, then in theory with a conversion rate of $2, we could pay anything up to but not over $10 CPC and still be profitable. However, this standard calculation is a bit misleading in my opinion. Unless your company is already very cash flow positive, your goal should be a cost of customer acquisition less than the first year's average revenues per customer. So, if the pizza sales on average or $85 per new customer in the first year and we are paying $2 CPC with a conversion rate of 2%, we are paying $100 cash to acquire each customer with an expected revenue of only $85. That is potentially risky. This customer may be profitable over a lifetime. Don't run out of cashon your way to riches. We need a CPC of under $1.70 to recover the cash outlay of our campaign within a year. Even then we will be cash flow negative  because $85 is the average revenue total sales, not the positive cash flow from that customer's sales.

With modern web traffic analysis, segmentation has truly come into its own and marketing has become a whole lot more rigorous and empirical. We would like to identify common characteristics shared by visitors with high conversion to revenue rates, and even better with high recurring revenue and lifetime value. We know that the average lifetime value for a customer is a bit of an oversimplification. There are many different types of customers. Some, are not only high recurring revenue, but are very satisfied with our offering and tell others how much they like us. Then there are one time customers who buy once, and we quite possibly lose money attracting them. And there are customers we'd just rather not have who complain constantly and demand refunds on everything they buy from us. When we segment our customers into groups and identify common characteristics, so we can figure out what kind of visitors later become our best customers and focus on attracting more like them, we're engaged in a fairly sophisticated form of segmentation. 
Here are some types of metrics we can use to segment our customers and potential customers. 
- **Where did a visitor to our website come from?** Sponsored search, they click on an ad that we ourselves placed on a search engine. Organic search, they clicked on an unpaid link to our website that came up in search results, or they clicked on a link that we placed in a group email or in a tweet. They came to us from a third party website. Someone like a food critic wrote a blog post or article about us and included a link to our site. Or direct they typed in our URL themselves. 
- **what kind of devices our visitors are using?** Are they on mobile iOS or Android? Are they on a Mac or Windows machine? 
- **what browser are they using?**
- **we can determine where in the world they are?** Often the country and state and region IP addresses provide a significant level of geographic information down to the zip code level in the US. 
- **Are they a new or returning visitor?**
- **If returning, are they already registered with us as a customer? **
- **What did they do when they got to our site? Did they bounce, which means leave immediately from our landing page? **
- **What was the total duration of their visit?**
- **How many of our site's webpages did they visit?**
- **And more advanced tools track each exact path through our website what is called the click stream. **

So here is an example of something we might discover doing this type of analysis. People who click through an organic link, have a much lower bounce rate, say 25% than the people who find us through a sponsored link, 45%. In this case, it would make sense to devote resources to improving our organic ranking in search results, a process called Search Engine Optimization or SEO. Some basic SEO steps we could take are to make sure that our content is current, substantive and directly relevant, avoid diluting our landing page results with unrelated topics or unrelated vocabulary. Try to get third-party web sites that have authoritative reputations for substantive opinion, like quality journalistic and product review sites and blogs, to mention us and provide a link to our web site. Increase our social signal by increasing our Facebook page likes, retweets, and building a substantive Google Plus page and increasing likes for it as well. Having a large number of followers and even more important, retweets by influential people on Twitter also counts towards one's Google ranking. All of these things improve organic search placement.
There were several websites mentioned in the AdWords Metric video. If you would like to further explore these website, please click on the links below:
- [wordstream]<a src="https://www.wordstream.com/articles/most-expensive-keywords">
- [google]<a src="https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/6297?hl=en">
- [neilpatel]<a src="https://neilpatel.com/blog/how-to-calculate-lifetime-value/?wide=1">

## Data Visualization
The human brain is an extraordinary visual patter detector. One of the reasons it took so long to design a computer that could outperform humans at chess, is that we simply couldn't figure out how to get computers to recognize patterns the same way someone like Garry Kasparov, arguable the world's most famous chess champion, could. A recent trend in big data analytics tries to take advantage of this. The idea is that if we can make it easier for people to see their data, they will naturally see important patterns in their data, and they will do so in a way that is much faster than running statistics. Especially if we don't know what statistics to run in the first place, which is often the case when you are working with real life, big and messy data. If you are sympathetic to this idea, then the natural extension is that we should try to allow as many people as possible to see a company's data because the more expert eyes we have, the more patterns we are likely to deduct. That is why the idea of company dashboards has become so popular. They are there to allow people all over the company to look for patterns. The business world has also tried to take advantage of the human brain's propensity for patterns in another way, and that's in the way the brain naturally turns patterns into stories or narratives. Narrative stories transmit the meaning of complex information very efficiently, much more quickly and completely than a list of facts. Recognizing this, the business world has gotten very excited about using both visualizations and narratives to communicate the actionable implications of complex data.


### Tips for Becoming a Data Analyst
Before we get started, I wanted to give you some of my own personal advice about how to use data to improve business processes. Here are my top ten tips for learning to become and analyst who consistently creates value out of data. 
-	Tip number 1, Ask Questions, Nourish Curiosity, and Embrace the Unknown. The business data analytics field is constantly moving, changing, and evolving. That makes it very exciting to be part of, but it also means that, to stay competitive, your skill set will need to be dynamic, too. As a consequence, the people who are most successful in this field are the people who like learning, are self-motivated to try new things, and who easily adapt to new environments. The best way to excel and standout is to be curious and unstoppable in your desire to deeply understand problems and come up with creative solutions. 
-	Tip number 2, Start Thinking about Everything You See as a Dependent or Independent Variable. Your most fundamental job as a data analyst would be to figure out how to make every business question you come across into numbers that can be tested. To analyze those numbers, you need to know which ones you are going to treat as dependent variables and which ones you are going to treat as independent variables. The dependent variable is the measure you are most interested in understanding. In your analysis, you examine it to see if its value is dependent on, or changes in response to, other factors. Those other factors are the independent variables. So for example, when I ask, does the amount of ice cream I have for breakfast affect my happiness that day? My happiness that day is the dependent variable, because it is the phenomenon I am measuring and I'm most interested in. The amount of ice cream I eat, is the independent variable because I want to see if it affects my happiness. And I assure you, it does affect my happiness, by the way. Let's look at an example from business data. The Nielson Company famously collects data from a sample of consumers who are paid to track everything they buy. When those consumers come home from a store, they scan the barcodes of every single item they bought that day into a special device that saves the data and sends it to a huge database where it can be mined in combination with demographics and other people's data to determine patterns in customer purchasing behavior. With this data, you can ask questions like, does the amount of organic meat people buy relate to how many years of education they have? In this data question, the amount of organic meat people bought is the dependent variable because it is the thing you are measuring and interested in understanding. The years of education people have is the independent variable, because you want to see if it affects or influences organic meat purchasing behavior. Turning questions into numbers you can analyze can feel unnatural to do in many situations. So start practicing now with relationships you see around you. Every time you see a relationship ask yourself, if I wanted to know more about this relationship, what would be the dependent variable and what would be my independent variable? 
-	Tip number 3, explore the advantages and disadvantages of continuous versus discrete variables. Continuous variables are measurements that can take on an infinite number of values between a minimum and maximum value, like you would have if you were taking a measurement with a ruler. Discrete variables are measurements that can take only a specific set of values, like if you wanted to record whether a customer is a member of the Democratic, Republican or independent political party. If you had a question about conversion rates on your website, you could either represent conversion rates as a percentage in a continuous variable that would have an infinite number of possibilities between 1 and 100%, or you could represent conversion rates as a discrete variable with only three possible values of high, medium or low. Whether you treat variables as continuous or discrete can have a big impact on what statistical models you will use or what strategies you will have available to you. And it can also have a big impact on the type of information you are likely to glean. Discrete variables are generally easier to analyze and understand but they're also often less precise than continuous variables. And if they're designed poorly, they can hide important patterns. Continuous variables on other hand, can often be harder to interpret by eye, but they can provide detailed information about relationships. When we start making visualizations later in the course, you're going to have to make decisions about whether to make variables discrete or continuous. Discrete variables tend to be displayed in bar graphs, and continuous variables tend to be shown in line graphs. Start paying attention now to charts you see in newspapers, and ads or stories you see or hear that refer to data to try to convince you of something. Note which graphs or data stories you find most convincing. This will help you build intuition for what kinds of variables and graphs will be most effective to use in your own persuasive arguments in business settings. 
-	Tip number 4, make sure you always listen, and contribute. Data analysis projects are almost always collaborations. They will not be successful if your team doesn't work together and if you can't communicate information. Make it a priority to become a really good listener so that you are able to incorporate and internalize what other people say. But also make it a priority to be an active participant in all project related conversations. You are being hired for your expertise, and you need to put it to good use, especially given how much variability there is and how open companies are to data insights. This is important to remember, because sometimes, your data analysis will suggest paths forward that are inconsistent with other people's intuitions. So, as you move forward, focus on being both a collaborative and engaged participant in your data analysis projects. 
-	Tip number 5. Train your skepticism muscles. I'm telling you this from experience. Whenever you see a really dramatic or surprising effect in your data that nobody in your team or company expected, 9 times out of 10 or maybe even 99 times out of 100, it's due to a bookkeeping or coding mistake. There's probably a bug in your code, a misaligned column in your spreadsheet or incorrect label somewhere in your dataset. Similarly, whenever somebody tells you something with extreme confidence, temper your expectations. It's probably more complicated and messy than they are making it out to be. 
-	Tip number 6, that's why you need to seek details. Real life situations are messy. You often need to track down the details of mess in order to get to a vantage point where you can finally understand what's going on. This picture could represent a hair ball, a pile of spaghetti, an abstract painting of an ear, you can't be sure. But if you have the patience to follow the thread, you will eventually find the needle and be able to see the big picture. This goes back to the be curious theme I mentioned before. Don't be satisfied with taking your data at face value, be curious about what your data really look like, and what they really mean. 
-	Tip number 7, Cherish Precision. Being precise allows you to make progress and rule out inefficient directions much more quickly than vagueness. In such a dynamic field with so many unknowns you often won't be able to make precise predictions, hypotheses, or goals. But I do promise you, once you do, things will get easier. So I'm not suggesting that you should dogmatically require precision, but I am suggesting that you should cherish it. I should warn you that what I just said might be a little controversial. Some people might, I would argue incorrectly, believe that precision squashes creatively and innovation. My experience tells me the opposite, that precision allows the most creative and innovative ideas to become reality. 
-	Tip number 8, which is the the best practices in data analytics are not necessarily the most common practices in data analytics. It is important for you to know both so that you can choose which kind of practice will be most successful in a given situation. 
-	Tip number 9. As I said before, you will almost always be working in teams in business data projects and the expectations of your teammates and stakeholders matter. No matter how good an idea you have or how cool your data analysis is, if what you are going to tell them is contrary to what they expect, it will likely not be received very well and all your hard work will stop dead in its tracks.
-	 Tip number 10. Despite what you might have thought when entering a data-driven field, one of the key skills that will allow you to succeed is the ability to understand other people's perspective. In other words, the ability to put yourself in other people's shoes. You need to know what your partners and stakeholders think and feel about in order to make your solutions or recommendation successful. The better you are at anticipating their thoughts and feelings, the more efficient you will be at your projects. So make it priority to become an expert in putting yourself in other people's shoes. You will see every single one of these concepts come up somewhere in the course, sometimes multiple times. I'm telling them to you here in words but soon you will see how they play out in real life data analysis scenarios as well. Keep them in the back of your mind because you will definitely hear them again.


### Asking the Right Questions

We put data visualization first and data communication second in this course title. Because that's the order in which you do things when you're in a data analysis project and you've already started doing your analysis. But our title leaves out a critical step, the communication that happens before you even touch your data. Academic researchers and the Teradata University Network ran a study to determine the state of business intelligence and analytics. They asked over 400 recruiters from technical companies to respond to the following prompt. When I recruit for business intelligence or business analysts roles, it is important that the students have the following course work or knowledge. Then the recruiters had to rank a bunch of possible responses. The number one answer companies gave in this survey was communication skills, believe it or not. Communication skills was then followed by SQL and query skills and then basic analytics. 
Data interpretations are fundamentally influenced by their context. Part of the context is driven by your stakeholders. But an equally influential part of the context is driven by you as the analyst, your assumptions, your hypotheses, and what you already know. A successful analyst needs to learn how to anticipate issues in both the context created by the stakeholders and the context created by you, your own knowledge and your biases as an analyst. In this module I want to show you that one way to ensure your data's project context works for you rather than against you, is to ask and then answer a series of logically thought out and connected questions about first the project and second the data. Some people call these connected questions a framework. Other people might call them the right questions. There's a lot of mystique about asking the right question in business analysis. This mystique makes it sound like one right question will suddenly make a perfect answer fall out of the sky to your feet. That sounds very nice, it really does. But real life and real data are much more messy than that. First of all you will never know if one question is the right question until you actually have an answer. And second of all very rarely does one question answer your entire business problem. Further, the right question can come in many flavors. Sometimes the right question is the one that solves your business problem. But other times the right question is the one that prevents you from misinterpreting your data or from recommending a business process change that has no chance of being adopted by your stakeholders. Therefore, I think it's misleading to talk about asking the right question, because there are lots of right questions. So instead of worrying about asking the right question, I want you to focus on asking a lot of questions. Be really, really curious all the time. Be insatiable in your desire to understand the ins and outs of every business situation you encounter. Be a sponge and soak up as much information as you possibly can in the time your project allows. Your job is to be a detective and identify all the things that can either solve you business problem, affect your data interpretation, or influence your eventual recommendation. The best way to make sure you eventually cover the right question is to ask and answer as many questions as you can come up with. In this module, we are going to go over some of the key questions you should make sure to ask before you even touch any data. We're also going to go over ways you can organize your questions, so that you can navigate the problem space of your data analytics project as efficiently as possible. My goal is that by the end of this module you will feel confident that you can organize a deliberately chosen set of questions to cover all the content you need to in a very short amount of time. Are you ready to ask some questions?

### S.M.A.R.T. Objectives
You need to understand the ins and outs of what is motivating your stakeholders to come to you in the first place. So, how do you figure this out? In line with the theme of this module, you ask questions of course. And you give smart answers, and then you get the stamp for approval in your smart answers. Let me explain what I mean. The very first thing you should do, when you consider whether you will take on a data analysis project, just plan a meeting with the primary people who are funding the project. Go into this meeting prepared to ask questions, lots and lots of questions. The goal of your questions, should be to put yourself in their shoes and figure out where all your stakeholders’ true motivations and financial interests lie. Remember, unfortunately, they may not always know where their motivations and financial interest lie. Even, if they think they know. In order to figure this out, plan on asking questions that aim to get specific information but keep the questions as open ended as possible, so your stakeholders can talk in a way that is natural for them. I suggest you start with, what problem is this business having that you are hoping to solve by developing this project? Then, you can follow up with questions like, can you tell me more about how this problem is affecting the business? And then, what is your ideal outcome for this project? I can't give you an exact script of what every meeting will be like, because every meeting will be different. But I have provided some links on our course website, that you can check out for ideas of other questions you might wanna ask. Whatever questions you do ask, remember, really listen to your stakeholders' answers. Their needs drive the project, and this is your chance to figure out what their needs are. After you've had your meeting, your next job is to synthesize what you heard and draft up a smart statement that reflects the goal of the analysis project. Now, I know all of you are incredibly bright students, but in this case I'm not using the word smart to allude to your brain power. 
The S.M.A.R.T framework was introduced by George Duran in 1981 as a method for designing effective objectives. It's been used on a bunch of different contacts, with a bunch of different meanings but here we are going to understand S.M.A.R.T objectives or goals as those that are
-	Specific
-	Measurable
-	Attainable
-	Relevant
-	 Time-Bound
### Listening to Stakeholders During Elicitation

I talked about the role of context and asking questions earlier. There's actually a term for the process of asking your stakeholders questions about your projects and it's called Elicitation. Elicitation sessions occur after you've already accepted an analysis job and occur throughout the entire life cycle of the project so that you can continuously monitor how your stakeholders are feeling. Elicitation techniques are actually used by many fields, including anthropology, cognitive science and business management, just to name a few. But in all contexts, elicitation refers to the process of gathering information directly from people. In business or data analytics, the elicitation process is talked about most commonly in long term roles that involve rolling out new software and implementing new data collecting techniques. But it's important for the data analyst too. To give you an idea of how important it is, I've posted on the course website a data scientist job posting for SAS, a well-known business analytic software company. You'll see that one of the job description items is elicit information from groups and plan and conduct elicitation sessions with working groups to develop and asses alternatives, uncertainties and value and risk preferences. So, clearly it's important even for a data scientist. Now, what do you do during this so called elicitation? I think you know one thing I'm gonna say. Ask questions. I recommend thinking about elicitation sessions as trying to achieve three main goals. Your first goal is to determine who your key stakeholders are. As a reminder, stakeholders are anybody who is affected by your data analysis project or who might have a strong interest in it. For example, imagine you are in charge of analyzing archive sales data from the electronics department of a small department store chain. You are supposed to design an algorithm, that will predict, when would be the best time to send a specific customer base, coupons. The ultimate vision for the project is to use this algorithm to change when the business sends coupons to its customers. In this scenario, the project sponsor who has hired you and has a vision for the entire project, is certainly a stakeholder. But so are the people who would actually be responsible for sending out the coupons in the marketing department, even if they don't know anything about the project as a whole. After all, if they don't have any method for incorporating your predictive insights, you won't have any way to affect when coupons are sent out. Which means you ultimately won't be able to improve the business. Other stakeholders of your project include the database team, who organize the database that houses the archive data, or other departments who might want to use your algorithms for their own purposes. There also might be stakeholders outside of the company, such as the US government. If any part of your analysis runs the risk of being interpreted as invading customer's privacy, the government might wanna know about it. So as you can see, the list of potential stakeholders can get very large. That's why one of your goals for elicitation should be to narrow down this list to the stakeholders who will have the greatest potential to affect whether your project succeeds or fails. There are many different ways to elicit information from people, including but not limited to, in person meetings, focus groups, and emails.  The second goal of your elicitation sessions should be to get some hints about what types of effects or factors you should be considering in your data analysis. In other words, you are trying to figure out how to prioritize the independent variables you want to examine. Often, the person who hires you isn't the person closest to the business problem or the data. So they might not be able to give you all the specific factors that are relevant to solving the problem. Therefore, no matter what other elicitation techniques you use, I strongly recommend that you include in-person meetings with as many of your potential stakeholders as you can, especially with people who you know are going to be highly impacted by your project. In our example from before about analyzing sales data to predict when would be the best time to send coupons to certain groups, this would mean having in-person meetings with the people who would actually be responsible for sending out those coupons. Similar to when you were trying to establish the goals or project with project leaders, go into these elicitation meetings with the stakeholders with a plan to ask directed open ended questions that allow your stakeholders to talk naturally. Do your best to get their honest perspective about what's going on. Now there are many different templates for these meetings, but some of my favorite questions that you can ask are, what has been tried before and how did it turn out? What do you think might improve this business problem? These kinds of questions, when successful, will give you specific ideas about what factors you should operationalize as independent variables in your analyses. It will also help you learn about potential constraints the business process changes you will ultimately suggest at the end of the project. Learn as much as you can about what types of changes are easy or hard to do, given your company's business culture or data architecture. And make sure you take these factors into consideration when you craft your recommendation strategy. For example, if your stakeholders seem distrustful of data, you don't likely want to recommend that the company completely overhaul its data structure overnight. Instead, you'll want to come up with a more gradual solution that will ensure stakeholders buy in. Your third goal during elicitation sessions is, to be honest, very controversial. But I mention it because I think it's important to be aware of. I'm going to introduce it to you through a real story about a car company shared with me by Svetlana Sicular, research director at Gartner one of the world's largest big data advisory companies. The real name of the car company Svetlana told me about, has purposely been removed, but this is a true story from Gartner's research about why data analytics projects fail. The senior executives of a car company decided to use data analytics to search for competitive insights that could help their dealers boost sales to customers. The company invested millions of dollars in a customer sentiment analysis project, which was conducted over a period of six months. The executives were incredibly excited about this project and started advertising all over the company about how the findings revealed by the data analysis would revolutionize the way they sold cars and boost revenue for all. When the analytics project was complete, a report containing its findings was distributed to the franchises, along with what the executives thought were excellent brand new selling tips based on the data findings. The report was sent out to the car franchises. But to the executives' surprise, the dealers were not happy at all with what they read. In fact, they were down right frustrated. They already knew everything in the report. The data analysis didn't offer anything they weren't already doing. So the executives had committed literally millions of dollars to this project. But they never asked for the advice of the people who would actually be using the product of the data analysis. As a result, all of those millions of dollars were completely wasted. This mishap cost the executives lots of money and pride, but at least they learned an important lesson for their next data analytics project. Always remember to talk to your stakeholders. The third goal of your elicitation questions should be to find out whether all the stakeholders agree about what business problem needs to be solved. Be prepared to learn that some stakeholders will actually have a completely different view of the project than what you heard from the person who assigned you the project. Since your solution will only succeed if you have at least most of the stakeholders buy in. If you do find out that there is a discrepancy between what stakeholders want out of the project, get everybody into a room and discuss the business problems, and then revise your smart goals until everybody, or at least a critical mass is on board. It might not be pleasant, I know, but it'll be a lot more pleasant than being held responsible for the company wasting millions of dollars. To summarize, part of your job as a business analyst and certainly a part of what will make you most successful, will be keeping thoughtful tabs on who participates on the context in which you are trying to solve your business problem. Throughout your project, keep talking to people, keep asking questions, keep listening and keep thinking about how you can turn what people say into variables you can test. No matter how long you've been in a specific industry, your stakeholders are the best domain experts in the specific problem you are trying to solve. Asking them questions and listening to their answers will be the best way you can ultimately take advantage of their business knowledge in your data analysis.


Using SPAPs to Structure Your Thinking

Through the process of elicitation, you now have the beginnings of a skeleton for your data analysis. You already know what the dependent variable of most of your analyses should be, because you got your team to sign off on a smart goal with a smart metric. You also have some ideas of what type of factors, or independent variables, should affect that business metric, because you asked your stakeholders lots of questions and they gave you some helpful answers. You're ready to start jumping into your data analysis, right? Hm, not quite. Unless you have unlimited time and resources, just like you shouldn't agree to jump into a data analysis project without defining the value the analysis is supposed to provide, you shouldn't jump into the data analysis itself without a plan for what you are going to do. When you have a lot of information to understand and work through, it is very resource inefficient to explore
a data set aimlessly without hypotheses. It's also very difficult for a team to work together on a project without having some kind of common road map they can refer to for guidance and direction. That's why I am taking the time to talk
about analysis plans before we start learning how to use Tableau. Having a plan doesn't mean you can't be creative, or that you won't be flexible to change it. What it does mean is that you have forced yourself to articulate and communicate what you are going to do, so that you stay on track, get feedback along the way, and have a framework in which to understand the insights you find. To be more specific, having a clear analysis plan will give you a map to make sure you stay on task and don't get distracted with data that aren't relevant to your smart goals, make it easier to track if there are gaps in your thinking, give you a framework to convey your conclusions, give you a straightforward structure to report your progress, and will make it possible for an entire team to be on the same page about what needs to happen next. In this lesson, I would like to share with you an approach I've called the Structured Pyramid Analysis Plan, or SPAP, for developing data analysis plans. In this video, we'll go over how to set SPAPs up. In the next video, we'll go over the details of how you work through your SPAPs. I designed the SPAP because I've always found it useful to think of the framework of your data analysis as a pyramid. Your smart goal and the problem metric you use to assess progress go at the top and underneath that, all the variables that could affect your metric are organized in ever widening layers of increasing amounts of detail. The visualizations you will use to assess those variables go at the bottom of the pyramid. To make an SPAP yourself, you will either need a huge whiteboard that won't get erased, a big piece of paper, some post it notes, or some software that allows you to easily draw hierarchies and links, something like mind mapping software that's freely available on the web. You can also just draw the SPAP in a really big PowerPoint slide. That's the method I will demonstrate here this time, but my favorite option, honestly, is to actually brainstorm my SPAPs with Post it Notes or index cards, then put the final result into my mapping software that is easy to share over email or the web. To begin your SPAP write your S.M.A.R.T. Goal at the top of your pyramid. It is, after all, the keystone and driving force of your analysis. To start transforming that goal into numbers you can analyze, as you hear me say often, you will treat your smart metric as your dependent variable. For illustration purposes I'm going to use the click stream example from earlier videos, so in our case, revenue will be the metric that we care about. The next step is very important. I want you to actually write the dependent variable you were going to use to measure your metric right underneath the S.M.A.R.T. goal itself on your SPAP. That may sound simple, but one of the first things you will notice when doing this is that sometimes, no matter how specific you thought your SMART objective was when you first wrote it, there ends up being a couple different useful ways to assess your smart metric. Although each of those ways may be valid, they will likely give you slightly different information for time resolution. For example, in our scenario,increased  revenue seems specific. But once you are given the data to help you calculate how much revenue is brought in, it will quickly become apparent how
many different ways you could calculate and represent revenue. Here's a sample of what the data might look like. You see that you have a different row of data for every item purchased. For each of these items, you know who bought it, how many they bought, what else was bought with it and what each item cost. One way to compute revenue would be to assess the total money spent by a customer during each transaction. In other words, you would sum up all the rows I've color coded for you here, where each color is determined by a transaction ID. Computing revenue this way would allow you to investigate whether specific experiences customers had during a given visit relate to how much they spent on that specific visit. Another way to assess revenue would be to compute the total revenue brought in per month. In this case, you would sum up all the rows in a given color I provided for you here, but this time, each color would be determined by the month of the transaction. Computing revenue this way would allow
you to investigate how the website is doing as a whole, especially in comparison to how it did during previous years. Yet another way to assess revenue would be to compute the total money spent by each customer. In this case, you would sum up all the rows in the given color again, but this time each color would be determined by the customer ID. Computing revenue this way would facilitate looking up different groups of customers. Which method you choose for an analysis will be dependent on your question, what level of granularity other variables you're interested in have, and what types of models or statistics you want to use. We'll see examples of what I mean by this when we get to the Tableau lessons. For now, when you think there might be multiple useful measurements that you can represent with your S.M.A.R.T. metric, I want you to write them all down in your SPAP. Doing so will help you clarify your
thinking about exactly how you'll answer each question you have about your data and about how long it will take to come up with each of those answers. Once you have finished with your smart goal and metrics in layer one,  you are ready for the deeper layers. The layers that come underneath the smart goal are meant to define a logical structure or framework to organize the factors you will be exploring. This is where you will organize the general categories and subcategories of issues that will be important for achieving your smart goal. Think of all these factors as your independent variables that can impact your smart metrics which remember, are your dependent variables. We're going to go over one way to organize you independent variables right now, but it's not very important to me that you use a specific method. What I do care about is that you organize your variables in some kind of logical way that makes it possible for you and the rest of your team to track what you've done and work through issues efficiently. The method we demonstrate here designs the middle layers of your SPAP based on the issues we've learned about
through talking to your stakeholders and through your own experience. In essence, you need to take everything you learned during elicitation and organize it into categories and subcategories of factors you know you have to examine. In the illustration, I have filled in the middle layers of our SPAP with some of the issues that might affect the revenue
brought in by your website example. You can see that in layer two, I have one large category of issues that has to do with the demographics of our customers, another large category that has to do with the behaviors the customers might exhibit when they get to the website, and a third category that has to do with marketing strategies that might interact with the success of the website. Each of these larger categories are then broken up into more specific categories in layer three. I've only listed a few categories and subcategories here, but in the real project, you should
make as many layers and sublayers as you need to cover all the issues you want to make sure you document or address. Remember, your SPAP will be for both helping you streamline your analysis, and also for communicating to the rest of your team and stakeholders, what you are working on, and what have you done. It is worth documenting the issues you will address as well as you can. It might take awhile to document all these issues when you have a really big project, but I promise it will be worth it. In the next video, we'll learn how to combine making visualizations with your SPAP to allow you to hone in on your business recommendations as quickly and efficiently as possible.

Now we're going to go over on how to work through the layers of your SPAP to find business insights. Once you have your categories and some category is organized, the next step is to list exactly what data you will use to address each of the most detailed categories within each larger category. I literally mean write down what variable you will use from what data source. If you don't know where to get the data, mark it on your SPAP. I suggest just using one symbol or outline for I know where the data is and I know how to get it. One symbol or outline for I'm pretty sure the data exists, but I'm not exactly sure where or how the variables are organized, and another symbol for, I have no idea if this data exist. The reason I am suggesting you to do this is that although it's usually easy for you as an analyst to get your hands on some kind of data, it can be much harder to get your hands on exactly the type of data you want. You need to figure out as quickly as possible if there is critical data missing or if there is data that is going to
take a long time to prepare. Sometimes it can take a month or even longer to resolve these types of issues, so the sooner you know whether you will need to adjust your plans or work with your team to get other
types of data, the better. Once you know what data variables you are going to use for each category or subcategory, the next step is to assign each category or subcategory a priority based on who suggested them, how much
impact you suspect they could have, and how feasible you suspect they will be to assess. Once you've assigned the priorities, I suggest you re-order each path in your pyramid according to its priority so it's easy for you to see what you need to focus on. If you do, all the highest priorities will be on the left and the issues with the lower
priorities will be on the right. In the end, you'll get something that looks like this. By the way, now is a good time in the life cycle of your analysis project to ask for feedback from your team and/or stakeholders. Ideally, all the important stakeholders would agree to the plan you laid out, because not only will it determine the order in which you will do your work, it will also serve as a method for communicating and justifying your decisions about what to spend time on when you're working under a tight deadline. Your stakeholders might not be used to looking at SPAPs per se, but they will be grateful to have documentation on exactly what you plan to do. The final step of an SPAP is to actually implement the plan and hone in on the most important issues or independent variables that will help you solve your business problem. Your mission during this last phase in the project is to identify really big effects that will be worth investing your time and to understand more deeply. Knowing how strong the relationships between your smart metric and your independent variables are likely to be gives you a very good picture of long it will take you to reach conclusions about your business problem. If there are at least some strong effects between your smart metric and independent variables you are testing, you'll want to focus on those independent variables first. If there aren't any strong effects between your smart metric and independent variables you are testing, you will either need to go back to your stakeholders to figure out some more variables to examine, or you will need to enlist help from team members with more statistical expertise to make more nuanced models. This step in your analysis project is where the power of visualization software for data analysis, as opposed to just data communication, becomes most apparent. In the past, analysts used statistical programs or Excel to look for strong effects. To find those effects, you would have to rearrange your data for almost every single analysis you wanted to implement. In stark contrast, well designed visualization programs like Tableau make strong relationships very easy to see immediately, and once you've gotten the data into the right format for your first analysis, you don't have to rearrange them ever again. Therefore, in combination with an SPAP, I find visualization programs much more efficient than statistical programs for quickly identifying which independent variables are most important for understanding smart metrics. This is especially the case in traditional business analytic situations that don't require complicated statistical or mathematic models. The visualization strategy I like to use is to make one or two charts to assess every single category specifically in layers two and three of your SPAP. Hold off on making visualizations for deeper layers for right now. Briefly describe what your charts would look like next to your variable or in the bottom layer of your pyramid so that they're easy to keep track of. I recommend restricting yourself to bar charts, scatter plots, and line charts during this phase, for reasons we'll learn about more in coming weeks. One by one, work through each of the categories in layers two and three to see if any of the charts unearth obvious patterns. For each graph you make, ask yourself do any patterns stand out to me or catch my eye? If not, highlight or mark the category with a color that means not likely to lead to an insight, and don't go any further down the pyramid tracks beneath that category. If it looks like maybe there is some kind of relationship between your smart metric and your independent variable, mark it with a color or symbol that represents how likely you think it will be to lead to an insight. If there is definitely a relationship between your smart metric and your independent variable, mark it with a symbol that means come back to me. Whenever a part of your SPAP is marked come back to me, make a point to work your way down all of the layers of that part of the pyramid. Making graphs for each layer of subcategories until you think you have a good strong hypothesis about what's going on and why your smart metric is being impacted by these variables. It will take a while to go through all the layers of your pyramid. So the reason I suggested starting by making graphs for both layer two and layer three of your pyramid but not deeper layers, is because hopefully it will help you avoid doing unnecessary work. If you don't see an obvious
effect at these top layers, you're less likely to see them at more detailed layers. It usually is a good idea to make graphs for layer three as well as layer two, though, because looking at just the larger category in layer two may hide important effects that you can only see when you segment the data a little bit more. This is especially true when you have a lot of subcategories in layer three. That said, you can use your judgement about whether you have enough data or categories to make it worth it to go  through every item in layer three or below, or whether, instead, you want to only make graphs for layer two to save time. As you go through the layers of your pyramid, make sure to incorporate what you learn into your plan. Add new hypotheses or cross out ones you know are no longer relevant. Look at what patterns emerge and refine and streamline your hypothesis. For example, if you found two possible categories of factors that likely have very strong relationships with your S.M.A.R.T. Metric, it will likely be important to
examine how these factors interact and you'll likely want to add that to your analysis plan. Remember to continue to get feedback throughout the process as well, to make sure what you are working on makes sense and is useful. Eventually by the end of this process, you will whittle you way down to the factors that seem to have the strongest relationship with your SMART Metric. By the time you have worked through the entire SPAP, you will either have a strong hypothesis about what business changes could be implemented to achieve your smart goal, or you will have a much clearer idea of what other resources you need to finish the project. Further, just by virtue of going through the process, you will have a way to document what you've done for your team and stakeholders, and have a mechanism for splitting work up with other members of your team if there's more work to do. All of the visualizations you will make for your SPAP will be designed to help you analyze the data. Once you've completed your analysis and know what data is most important for achieving your SMART goal, you will then start the transition from making visualizations that analyze data to making visualizations that communicate the implications of your data. We will learn how to make both of these types of visualizations in the next few weeks of this course.
